What is a Programming Language?
A programming language is a way for people to tell computers what to do. But computers only understand special codes called machine code (which looks like a bunch of 1s and 0s).

Key Objectives in Understanding Programming Languages:
i)Understanding high-level vs low-level programming languages.
ii)Understanding what assemblers, compilers, and interpreters do when translating programming languages into machine code.
iii)Recognizing the advantages and disadvantages of different translation methods (compilers, interpreters).


Topic:Low-Level Programming Languages (e.g., Assembly and Machine Code)
Machine Code:
Machine code is the lowest level of programming. It’s just 1s and 0s (binary code), like:
                             01010101 10101010 11110000
Computers can understand machine code, but it’s too hard for humans to read or write directly.

Assembly Language:
Assembly language is a step up from machine code. It uses short words or mnemonics (like MOV or ADD) that are easier to understand than just 1s and 0s.
Example in Assembly language:
        MOV AX, 5   ; This means: move the number 5 into the AX register
        ADD AX, 3   ; This means: add 3 to the value in the AX register
But even Assembly language still needs to be converted into machine code by a special program called an assembler.


So Why Use Low-Level Language?
Advantages:
Easier to write and read.
Portable: Can run on different machines.

Disadvantages:
Slower than low-level languages (need translation into machine code).


Compilers and Interpreters: How Code Gets Translated
Compiler:
Definition: A program that translates the entire source code into machine code at once.
Output: An executable file that can run without needing the source code again.
Pros:
i)Faster execution after compilation.
ii)No need for source code once compiled.
Example: C, C++.

Interpreter:
Definition: A program that translates and runs the source code line by line.
Output: Executes code directly, no executable file is produced.
Pros:
Easier for debugging.
Cons:
i)Slower execution since it translates code line by line.
ii)Requires source code to be available every time.
Example: Python, JavaScript.


Comparison of Low-Level and High-Level Languages:
Low-Level Languages:
Faster because they directly control the machine.
Harder to write and understand.

High-Level Languages:
Easier to write and understand.
Slower because they have to be translated into machine code first.

Examples:
Example 1: Low-Level vs High-Level Language (O-Level Question)
Question: Explain the difference between low-level and high-level programming languages.
Answer:
i)Low-level languages are very fast and allow complete control over the computer's hardware. But they are difficult to understand and write.
ii)High-level languages are easier for humans to write and understand but are slower to run because they need to be translated into machine code first.
